in the heart of a bustling calcutta
suburb forgotten by the people outside
stands the Tully gun home for the people
inside to the world outside
might as well be non-existent inhabited
by the aging and dying remnants of the
British Raj the home is a throwback to
the past an almost unreal world which is
all but ignored the passing of the last
34 years pictures of the English royal
family adorned the walls of the parlour
and dining hall and the residents are at
pains to prove their English heritage
like a Portrait Gallery from a world
gone by wrinkled faces gaze into the
muddled past bewildered old people with
nowhere to go no nation to look to cling
stubbornly to a lifestyle that is
vanished into history although they are
India's only community with 100%
literacy few anglo-indians adjusted to
the new way of life after independence
the miniscule ethnic group rapidly lost
the privileges it had enjoyed under
their British rulers and found itself
increasingly isolated in free India a
spate of emigration followed and today
the anglo-indians remain only in
secluded pockets in the country quote I
am the last of the Mohicans
alone in the world Wales miss Carr an
aging spinster who typifies the
anglo-indian dilemma at the home there
are no words to express my sense of
revulsion regret an outrage when I read
a white woman living in India referring
to herself as the last of the Mohicans
in as much as she is one of the last
representatives of the British Empire
the same British Empire that conquered
India in pieces once upon a time but yes
the same British Empire all
so that drove the Mohicans to the edge
of extinction the Mohicans in Korea my
gun they're not extinct in fact in the
year 2010 they finally finally got three
hundred and thirty acres of their
homeland given back to them they had
originally asked for a much much a
larger plot of land that they were in
fact entitled to they sailed for three
hundred and thirty acres they had the
great misfortune of having as their
native land very valuable territory that
includes the Hudson River the river that
flows into New York City it's been much
harder for them to hold on to any scrap
of land and obviously as everyone knows
from the famous phrase the last of the
Mohicans it's been rather hard for them
to survive history the interesting
questions about First Nations Native
Americans are not in my opinion though
was left behind in the past they're the
questions about the future when I
studied Korean a Jib way as languages at
First Nations University I was always
insisting on this that I was studying
these languages not to study native
spirituality need of anthropology nor
native history at least not in some
distant sense I was interested in the
present and future of these people of
these languages
I would ask questions such as how many
years will it be into the future before
we translate the constitution of Canada
into Korean a Jib way when will we see
the first science textbook the first
history textbook in Korean at Ghibli
when are we going to see a newspaper in
these languages and yes I also asked at
the university itself why is it that the
no-smoking signs are in English given
that this is supposed to be a university
by and for First Nations people
shouldn't there be a little bit of pride
taken in having words like no smoking or
please wash your hands before you leave
the washroom written in Cree a jib way
they could also use DNA or other
languages they want it to
and the example I tend to use most often
on this channel because I really felt it
as someone who also studied Chinese it
really sickened me that I would go up to
a bank machine to take money out of an
ATM a bank machine and there'd be such a
long list of languages to choose from
including foreign languages like Chinese
so known as Vietnamese but there would
not be a single indigenous language for
the native people of Canada when would
that change sure road signs all of these
questions some of them symbolic some of
them practical but ultimately these are
all questions about the future of these
native people and these are questions
that nobody is really asking inside the
parliament of the Government of Canada
inside the parliaments plural of the
provinces of Canada and that's for one
very simple reason when white people in
India became a powerless minority they
asked for guaranteed that seats in
parliament would be reserved for them so
they would have a voice inside the
democratic government it's a
tremendously bitter irony that in a
world where the same word Indian was
used for the native people of India and
Indian was used to mean the native
people of Canada in this Empire it was
the white British minority the Anglo
Indians who had seats in parliament
reserved for them dedicated to them for
their protection for their benefit in
the Parliament of India whereas in the
parliaments of Canada there never have
been seats reserved for indigenous
people and on the contrary most of our
Parliament's have either been
overwhelmingly majority white people or
actually a hundred percent yes at
different times one or two seats have
managed to be elected by native people
but there is no significant
representation of native people or their
interests in our parliamentary system
quite the contrary
what is the future of Canada's native
people and native languages supposed to
be at the past and the present
they've been defined by their position
of voiceless inside a system of
so-called democracy that existed for the
express purpose of silencing them
forcibly assimilating them ignoring them
and marginalizing their resistance to
such an extent that as you know if you
live in Canada the United States most of
their problems would take more than 100
years to even be heard or addressed in
government it's routine you can google
it right now conflicts over land
ownership that started over a hundred
years ago it took 20 years to get to
court another 20 years for a ruling so
on and so forth
nobody would say that the well-being of
the native peoples of Canada or the
United States for that matter are a
priority for either government and there
is a very simple reason for that that's
because the people who would make it a
priority literally do not have a voice
in the house of parliament in Canada
you don't have a voice in the house of
Congress in the United States that gets
at the very basic problem of
representation and government a problem
much more fundamental than any
particular period of racism during my
lifetime Canadians have become less
racist there's no doubt even though
racism towards Native people is still a
massive problem in Canada I've seen it
felt it heard it many times
nevertheless we have to say racism is on
the way out the problem remains that
democracy that meaningful representation
for native peoples and native languages
is still not on the way in
[Music]